.TH url 1 "13 Feb 2017"
.SH NAME
percent \- percent codec
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B percent
[\fB-v\fR]
[\fB-e\fR | \fB-d\fR]
[\fB-a\fR | \fB-l\fR \fIlength\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIprecision\fR]
[\fB-o\fR \fIprecision\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Encode or decode percent encoding, also known as URL encoding.
.P
\fBpercent\fR is especially useful for piping data into other programs
that interpret the decoded binary data or saving it to files.
.P
If standard output is not redirected, binary data may be printed since
percent encoding can encode non-printable bytes.
Terminals are known for not suporting well binary data, especially
the null character.
.P
Input and output data can be length-prefixed. The default is no prefix.
If the output is not length-prefixed then the input is not buffered and
the input prefix is skipped.
Integer \fIprecision\fR must be supported by the compiler for the host machine.
If \fIprecision\fR is zero, it means that there is no prefix and buffer size is
set to automatic or it is read from \fIlength\fR.
If precision is -1 prefix size is set to size_t, which corresponds to the
maximum addressable memory on the host machine.
.SS Options
.TP
.BR -e
Encode the input.
.TP
.BR -d
Decode the input. This is the default.
.TP
.BR -a
Automatic memory management.
This is the default.
\fImax\fR sets the maximum length of input or zero for infinite.
Buffer grows in exponencial size.
This is not recommended if saving memory is necessary.
.TP
.BR -l
Input is size of \fIlength\fR bytes.
If real input length is greatar than specified, it will be truncated.
If real input length is less than specified, memory will be allocated but not used.
.TP
.BR -i
Input is prefixed with an integer with precision \fIbytes\fR.
.TP
.BR -o
Outputs is prefixed with integer with precision \fIbytes\fR.
.TP
.BR -v
Prints version and copyright information and quits.

.SH EXAMPLE
The following shell script decodes a url encoded string and prints "a b"
to the standard output.

.nf
.RS
echo "a+b" | url
.RE
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Mateus de Lima Oliveira <mateus@ativarsoft.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Ativarsoft online help: <http://ativarsoft.com/webutils>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2017 Mateus de Lima Oliveira.
Licence: Libertarian License.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR url (1),
.IR kv (1),
.IR templatizer (1)
